This page gives instructions on how to view Apollo-SV.

= Introduction =

To view Apollo-SV, you need to download and configure the Protege Ontology editor, and then open the ontology in Protege.


= Details =

===Download and Install Protege===

First, go to this web site and download the appropriate version of Protege for your operating system:

http://protege.stanford.edu/download/registered.html

To install Protege on a Windows-based system, run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions.

To install Protege on a Mac:
  1. Open the downloaded file
  2. If you do not see anything, you might need to click the finder icon on the Dock (the smiley face icon on the left)
  3. 

===Configure Protege===

Many ontologies assign meaningless identifiers to classes and properties, and use annotations such as labels to assign terms to classes.  However, Protege sometimes by default shows the meaningless identifiers.

To set up Protege to show labels on a PC:
  1. Go to the File menu, choose Preferences...
  2. Click on the Renderer tab.
  3. Select "Render by annotation property..." option under "Entity rendering"
  4. Click the Configure... button
  5. Paste the following into the Set Language box: en, en-us, !, ""
  6. Click OK.  (Returns to Renderer Tab)
  7. Click OK.  (Returns to Protege main screen)

To set up Protege to show labels on a Mac:
  1. Click the Protege menu next to the apple icon, choose Preferences...
  2. Click on the Renderer tab.
  3. Select "Render by annotation property..." option under "Entity rendering"
  4. Click the Configure... button
  5. Paste the following into the Set Language box: en, en-us, !, ""
  6. Click OK.  (Returns to Renderer Tab)
  7. Click OK.  (Returns to Protege main screen)


Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages