#summary Description of the Apollo Common Classes

=Introduction=
The term "Apollo Common Classes" refers to a set of pre-defined data structures that are part of Apollo-WS.  These data structures are used as parameters to, and return types of, methods that are defined as part of the Apollo-WS specification.

=Apollo.xsd=
To maintain the programming language agnostic nature of Apollo-WS, the Apollo Common Classes are defined in XML schema format.  The schema is stored in the source-code repository in [http://code.google.com/p/apollo/source/browse/trunk/apollo-ws/apollo-common/src/main/resources/Apollo.xsd /trunk/apollo-ws/apollo-common/src/main/resources/Apollo.xsd]  

Development tools are available for many languages that can automatically generate classes given an XML schema. 

=Classes=
The major classes (some referenced earlier in the architecture section of the document) are :

   1. ModelID - a class used to uniquely identify a model
   2. RunRequestObjTypes? - classes used to store the configuration of a model, used when submitting run requests
   3. RunResponseObjTypes? - classes used to store the results of a model
   4. RunStatusEnum? - an enumeration of reportable run states, returned from calls to getStatus
   5. SchoolClosurePolicyEnum? - an enumeration of school closure policy names
   6. TemporalGranularityEnum? - an enumeration by temporal granularity
   7. VaccinationPrioritizationSchemeEnum? - an enumeration of vaccination prioritization scheme names
   8. UnrecognizedParametersDescriptionObjType? - a class used to store any unregistered parameters. 

=Java Development=
==Generating the Apollo Common Classes==
For Java developers, the apollo-common project contains a Maven POM which automatically generates Java classes from Apollo.xsd using JAXB when the command "mvn compile" is issued from the same directory as the pom.xml file.
==Building the apollo-common.jar==
To package the generated Apollo Common Classes into a JAR file, issue the mvn command: "mvn package" form the same directory as the pom.xml file.