This page gives instructions on how to view Apollo-SV.

= Introduction =

To view Apollo-SV, you need to download and configure the Protege Ontology editor, and then open the ontology in Protege.


= Details =

===Download and Install Protege===

First, go to this web site and download the appropriate version of Protege for your operating system:

http://protege.stanford.edu/download/registered.html

To install Protege on a Windows-based system, run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions.

To install Protege on a Mac:
  # Open the downloaded file
  # If you do not see anything, you might need to click the Finder icon on the Dock (the smiley face icon on the left)
  # In the Finder window, the file Protege.app should be highlighted.  
  # Drag and Drop Protege.app onto the LaunchPad icon on the Dock (the icon with the Rocket)

===Configure Protege===

Many ontologies assign meaningless identifiers to classes and properties, and use annotations such as labels to assign terms to classes.  However, Protege sometimes by default shows the meaningless identifiers.  Apollo-SV is one of the ontologies that follows best practices of using meaningless identifiers.  To view Apollo-SV, you should therefore configure Protege to display labels.

To set up Protege to show labels on a PC:
  # Go to the File menu, choose Preferences...
  # Click on the Renderer tab.
  # Select "Render by annotation property..." option under "Entity rendering"
  # Click the Configure... button
  # Paste the following into the Set Language box: en, en-us, !, ""
  # Click OK.  (Returns to Renderer Tab)
  # Click OK.  (Returns to Protege main screen)

To set up Protege to show labels on a Mac:
  # Click the Protege menu next to the apple icon, choose Preferences...
  # Click on the Renderer tab.
  # Select "Render by annotation property..." option under "Entity rendering"
  # Click the Configure... button
  # Paste the following into the Set Language box: en, en-us, !, ""
  # Click OK.  (Returns to Renderer Tab)
  # Click OK.  (Returns to Protege main screen)

===Opening Apollo-SV in Protege===
After you launch Protege, depending on the version, you will either be presented with a set of options for opening an ontology, or you will get a blank ontology.

For the menu options:
  # Choose open ontology from location on the web
  # Paste the following URL into the URL text box: http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/apollo_sv.owl
  # Click OK or Next

For the blank ontology scenario:
  # Choose File->Open from URL...
  # Paste the following URL into the URI text box: http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/apollo_sv.owl
  # Click OK.